Koby Silverman

[Live sketch!!!](https://kobydotweb.github.io/120-work/FINAL/index.html)


The plan for my final project was almost completely reachable, though I had to try many wrong methods to finally get it right. I began with Schiffman's example with bubbles that would move around the screen and change when clicked. I thought this seemed promising considering its functional / visual similarity to my website of inspiration. First, I decided that I wanted to turn all the bubbles into separate transparent 'png' images, so naturally I had to go out and collect fifty perfect images for the artwork. Then, I declared that 199 of these would be drawn (line 23) and would be selected randomly. I did this by using the naming syntax 'png#' and then loading images 0 through 50 (line 8-9). The image-switching portion involved two parts; first preloading the flower, (line 6) then creating a 'clicked' function (line 66-68) which declares the locations within bubbles that will respond to a click and where outside that region will not respond.

Then, I decided that the bubbles should move independently, have randomized speeds, and bounce off the walls. This was the hard part that took me many different approaches to get right. However, the key was in creating the variable 'speedX' and 'speedY' and using them to call a random speed between -2.5 and 2.5. For the wall bouncing, the method that worked were lines 45-51 declaring that essentially if the 'x' or 'y' coordinate reach the height or width, they change direction. At first, some objects were getting stuck in their position because their spawn position was slightly outside the screen's range, preventing their movement. I fixed this with simply subtraction by changing the 'x' and 'y' position variables so that they could not spawn overlapping the edge boundary (line 25-26). Then, 'speedX' and 'speedY' were included in the Bubble class and in the 'move' function so that they would match with the variables declared at the top.

Overall, my successes include making a functional image-switching mechanism, a random and reliable spattered display of the fifty images, and the overall chaos and beauty of the final product. My failures include the many times I had to problem solve and experiment with different syntax for a working result, and my many offshoots of ideas that I couldn't think of ways to achieve (these included having every bubble switch between to packs of images based on mouseX position, or having images move in a single direction off the screen, deleting when offscreen and respawning in the inverse location for a continual single-direction flow of images). I am very satisfied with my final artwork and all the beautiful and ugly randomness that it represents! It is a very unique screensaver type application that served as a fun and complex set of problem to solve... FOR ART!!!
